this is Spartan group Omega if they want
war we'll give them war basic trainings
over the rifles are locked and loaded
and it's finally time to ship out to the
halo walls but is Microsoft's latest
really up to the task it's time to
unlock the truth and sesame in Halo Wars
the year is 25 31 which confusingly
enough means I'm dead anyway the war
rages on between the shiny shiny aliens
of the Covenant and the slightly dopey
humans of the UNSC instead of running
around in a pimped-out romper suit like
you're used to though you're sitting
pretty on the good ship spirit of fire
giving our orders and occasionally
toasting stuff with a giant space laser
Halo Wars is at the same time an
interesting concept and a massive gamble
for a start it's the first real time
strategy game to be built specifically
for a console a move that can infuriate
legions of PC RTS purists or bring
hordes of new fans round to the genre in
a way that ported strategy titles
couldn't secondly the Halo universe is a
rich and well loved one it lends itself
well to being scaled up but you've also
got to bear in mind that Halo fans are
used to seeing nothing with the thick of
battle from a first-person perspective
RTS games are controlled from a fairly
detached perspective so does halo wars
really have the power to excite and
satisfy like before
well yes and no the main appeal of Halo
Wars is the ability to control
essentially every facet of your army
from squadrons of Hornets to the
trash-talking grunts on the ground for
the most part ensemble Studios have done
an exceedingly good job with it falling
back to see the full scale of fight is
really good fun affording a more epic
atmosphere that wasn't there in the
first three halo titles however as
feared it does all feel a bit passive
taking away quite a chunk of the
excitement that said Halo Wars handles
quite nicely holding it up around the
controller has actually paid off
providing a game that is easy to get to
grips with and not too frustrating to
control the units behave well moving in
much the same way as they do in the
other titles and the ability to cycle
through the unit classes you've selected
allows for a much more focused approach
to battles you may occasionally find
your infantry merrily blocking a warthog
from getting where it wants to go which
is thoroughly irritating but this
doesn't happen all that much and is
fairly easily rectified unsurprisingly
the controls are almost exactly the same
when you're controlling the Covenant as
with the UNSC keeping things flowing
smoothly when you switch sizing modes
like multiplayer local units hello walls
visuals are quite nice the characters
have been scaled down without becoming
overly cartoonish in the process and the
character modeling is brilliantly
faithful to the original it's a shame
you can't zoom the camera in more to get
a better look at the detail but I'll
come back to that believe me I'm not
done talking about the camera yet not by
a long shot still at least the cutscenes
look nice I care not for your little
life open Fleming sound-wise Halo Wars
has authenticity coming out of its ears
from the music to the sound effects to
the quirky dialogue from the Marines
it's everything you could expect from a
halo title and is a big part of the
game's enjoyment factor the responses
you hear when giving orders can get a
bit repetitive but to be honest if you
can show me an RTS game in which this
doesn't happen I'll get your user name
tattooed in giant letters across my
buttocks I really will so nice visuals
great audio solid controls all in all
it's looking quite good for Halo Wars
well not quite there's one tiny feature
in Halo Wars that makes me want to grind
this game disc up into a thousand razor
sharp pieces and then give it a really
good rub into each one of my eyes and
that's the camera I can't remember the
last time I was so incredibly bothered
by a camera in the game as I mentioned
before you can't zoom in enough to get a
real sense of the battles excitement but
you also can't pull out far enough to
get a good enough overview of how the
whole thing's going it's simultaneously
too aloof and totally claustrophobic
which is not something I would have
actually thought possible until now it
may sound like a fairly irrelevant
complaint but the eleuthera phobic
camera makes you feel that your bumbling
around the map in the dark occasionally
bumping into men you forgot you had
before then move on and forget them
again because you've got no idea of
where they are in relation to everybody
else it stops the experience from really
being tied together as a whole leaving
me wishing I owned one of those beam
sword things so I could cleave whoever's
responsible clean in two
anyway let's wrap this up I need a cup
of tea in a lie down it was a big gamble
taking halo into the RTS genre but for
the most part it's paid off it's a solid
game in itself and the familiarity of
the Halo universe adds a lot of fun at
the same time it also suffers because
the halo element just kind of makes you
feel you want to play the original
titles as those have a far more heated
intense field that said most gamers
already know how they feel about
real-time strategy so you can steer
clear of it should they wish oh and if
they could also steer straight into
whoever program the camera that'll be
great thanks now that's not what I
expected
Shh